---
title: "1800-1899 Timeline"
---

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th colspan="4">
<h3><strong>Click the year to jump to</strong></h3>
</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#1820">1820</a></td>
<td><a href="#1840">1840</a></td>
<td><a href="#1860">1860 </a></td>
<td><a href="#1880">1880</a></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<strong>1800</strong> Orange County second United State Census was taken this year.
<strong>1800</strong> On October 14th, 1800, Robert Berry sold 200 acres of land to his neighbor,
William Armstrong. (DB 13:330)
<strong>1800</strong> Thomas Berry married Sarah Cate on August 11th in Orange County, North Carolina. Bride’s Parents: William and Elizabeth Cate.
Groom’s Parents: Robert and Elizabeth Cate Berry.
Sisters Hannah and Sarah Cate married Berry brothers, William and Thomas.
1800 Anna Thorpe, Joshua Berry Jr’s wife, was born in NC.
1800 David J. Berry Jr. was born in Orange County, NC.
Parents: David J. and Mary Blalock Berry.
<strong>1801</strong> Eleanor Berry was born in Orange Co, NC.
Parents: Thomas & Sarah Cate Berry
<strong>1801</strong> December 18th, Thompson Berry, the third son of Robert Berry Jr. and Mary Camp Berry, was born in Orange County, North Carolina.
<strong>1801</strong> Joshua Berry Jr. was born April 15th. His parents were Joshua and Nancy Ellison
Berry.
<strong>1802</strong> David Berry was born in Orange County, NC. David was known as David
II Berry. He was the son of Thomas and Sarah Cate Berry.
<strong>1802</strong> Delilah Berry was estimated to be born in Orange County, NC.
Parents: Joshua and Nancy Berry, Orange County, NC.
<strong>1802</strong> Catherine Berry married Jacob Pickle on Feb 20th.
Catherine’s parents: Robert Berry Jr. and Mary Camp Berry.
In the 1810 Orange County Census Roll 41 Page 963, Jacob and Catherine Pickle were living next to David J & Mary B. Berry.
1803 Atending William Cate’s estate sale: William & Elizabeth Cate’s children, John Cate, Benjamin Cate, Hannah Cate Berry, Sarah Cate Berry. Many of the Robert Berry family bought items at William Cate’s estate sale.
<strong>1803</strong> William Clarence Berry was born October 17th in Orange County, NC.
Parents: Robert Berry Jr. and Mary Camp Berry.
<strong>1805</strong> Robert C. Berry was born 14th April to William and Hannah Cate Berry.
<strong>1805</strong> David Middleton Berry, April 14th, was the fifth son of Robert Berry Jr. and Mary Camp Berry and was born in Orange County, North Carolina.
<strong>1805</strong> Lewis Berry was born to Joshua and Nancy Ellison Berry.
<strong>1806</strong> Thomas Berry sold 200 acres of land to James Miller for the sum of one
hundred and twenty five pounds. Thomas sold his land in preparation for his
upcoming trip to the west in search of more land. Thomas Berry never returned to North Carolina. His living descendants in Tennessee believe that Thomas was killed by Indians in Tennessee while searching for land. James Miller had this deed recorded in the February Term of the Orange County Open Court in 1807.
<strong>1807</strong> Mary Berry was born in Orange County. Parents: David & Mary Blalock Berry.
<strong>1807</strong> Robert Berry Sr. sold 200 acres of his land to William Stagg for 150 Pounds Current Money.(Deed bk. 39 Page 396 ) William Stagg married Utley Waggoner in 1805
<strong>1808</strong> Thomas Person Berry was born June 1st in Orange County, NC.
His parents were William and Hannah Cate Berry.
<strong>1809</strong> Mary Berry married Thomas Berry (unidentified family member) on the 7th March. Bride’s Parents: William Riley & Elizabeth Berry. Groom’s
Parents: Unknown. Bride’s Grandparents: Robert and Elizabeth Cates Berry.
Bondsman: Henry Berry, the bride’s uncle.
<strong>1810</strong> Robert Berry Jr. listed in Person County, North Carolina, Census this year.
He and his family later removed to Fayette County, Alabama.
<strong>1810</strong> Hannah Cate Berry listed head of household in the 3rd US Census of Orange
County, NC. In the listing she listed 4 boys under 10, one girl under 10 and two
women over 26 and under 45. In this census, Sarah and Hannah were living
together with their children while their husbands, Thomas and William Berry, were in Tennessee seeking land.
Hannah was actually 40, Sarah was actually 29, so this bracket fits their ages..
Hannah’s boys: Unknown son born in 1799 could have been 10, Thomas P. was 2
Sarah's children: Eleanor was 9, David II was 8.
One boy under 10 is unaccounted for in this census. He may have been the son of
either family.
<strong>1810</strong> Nancy Berry was born to Joshua and Nancy Ellison Berry, Orange County, NC.
<strong>1810</strong> Henry Berry born in Orange County NC. Parents: David J. & Mary Blalock Berry
<strong>1811</strong> George N. Berry was born in Orange County, NC.
Parents: David J and Mary Blalock Berry,
<strong>1811</strong> Sarah Lunsford (51) born 25th July, daughter of William D. and Edy Cozart
Lunsford.
<strong>1811</strong> Robert Berry sold the land west of Lick Creek from the Original Land Grant in Orange County, NC, to his son, Joshua Berry. James Berry, Joshua’s son, and Charles Holeman, Robert’s neighbor, were witnesses to the deed made on the 24th day of February. Deed bk. 14 Page 57, Orange County, NC.
<strong>1812</strong> Elizabeth Berry was born in Orange County, NC, this year.
Mother: Hannah Cate Berry, ex-wife of William Berry.
Father: John Berry (unidentified family member).
<strong>1812</strong> Robert Berry was born in Orange County, NC, to David J. and Mary Blalock Berry.
<strong>1812</strong> Robert Berry wrote his will April 16th, Will Book D Page 408 Orange County, North Carolina.
<strong>1813</strong> Charlotte Berry was born in Orange County, NC,
Parents: Robert and Nancy Ellison Berry.
<strong>1814</strong> Robert Berry was 84 years old when he died. He was buried on the plantation about 300 yards from the cabin he built when he first married in 1758. The cemetery is located at: N 36 14’ 07.3” W 79 01’ 30.8”.
<strong>1814</strong> Robert Berry’s will was probated by his son, Henry Berry, and Robert Berry’s wife, Elizabeth Cate Berry.
<strong>1814</strong> Henry Berry inherited the plantation of Fiddleton in Orange County, NC.
Robert Berry left the property to Henry in his will dated April 15, 1812, with
some provisions attached.
<strong>1815</strong> John Berry, who died in Rusk County, was born. His parents were George and
Susanna Aldridge Berry. A descendant from this line matches 36 out of 37 markers to a descendant of William Berry from Orange County, NC, in a Y-DNA test.
<strong>1815</strong> Lydia Berry was born in Orange Co. She was Isaac Berry’s daughter.
<strong>1816</strong> Elizabeth Cate Berry was about 86 years old when she died and was buried
beside her husband of 63 years, Robert Berry, in a grave that is located on the
Fiddleton Plantation. N 36 14’ 07.3” W 79 01’ 30.8”
<strong>1817</strong> Sarah Berry married William A Cates on the 24th of July in Person County, NC.
Bride’s parents were David J. and Mary Blalock Berry.
Groom’s father was Robert Cates.
<strong>1817</strong> Alfred Cates was born on November 24th in Orange County, NC.
Parents: Sarah Berry Cates and William A. Cates.
<strong>1819</strong> Chapel Hill, North Carolina, was established.
<strong>1819</strong> Romulus Saunders Cates was born in September in Orange County, NC.
Parents: Sarah Berry Cates and William A. Cates.
<strong>1819</strong> George N. Berry died in Orange County, NC, sometime before 1820.
Parents: David J. and Mary Blalock Berry.
<strong>1819</strong> Mary Howell was born in Fayette County, Alabama.
She would grow up to marry John Berry, who was born in 1815 in NC. They
were married in Fayette County, Alabama, and later moved to Rusk County, TX.
<span id="1820"></span>
<strong>1820</strong> March 29, Cynthia Berry was born to Joshua and Anna Thorpe Berry Jr., Ohio.
<strong>1820</strong> Joshua Berry Jr and Anna Thorpe were married in Ohio or NC.
<strong>1820</strong> Winifred Berry married Joshua Norman in Orange County on Sept. 19, 1820,
Parents: David J and Mary Blalock Berry from Orange County, NC.
Grandparents: Robert and Elizabeth Cates Berry from Orange County, NC.
<strong>1820</strong> Martha Cates was born on May 20 to Sarah Berry Cates and William A. Cates.
<strong>1821</strong> In September, 1821, Henry and David Berry of Orange County sold a slave girl named Amy to William McKissack Sr. of Person County for $350. The
witnesses were: Thomas P. Evans, Robert G. Cummins, William Lipscomb, and
John Cummins.
<strong>1821</strong> David Norman was born to Winifred Berry & Joshua Norman, NC.
<strong>1821</strong> Eli Berry was born Oct.10th in Orange County, NC
Parents: Joshua and Nancy Ellison Berry.
<strong>1822</strong> Mary Polly Cates, daughter of William A. Cates and Sarah Berry Cates, was
born on the 10th of January in South Carolina.
Granddaughter of David J. & Mary Blalock Berry.
<strong>1823</strong> Isaac Cates was born December 27 in Georgia.
Parents: Sarah Berry Cates and William A. Cates.
<strong>1823</strong> Lucinda Norman was born to Winifred Berry & Joshua Norman.
<strong>1823</strong> William O. Burks was born. Note: Will grow up to marry Lucinda Norman.
<strong>1824</strong> Joshua P. Berry, April 13, born to David J. and Mary Blalock Berry.
<strong>1824</strong> Harrison Berry, July 7, born to Joshua and Anna Thorpe Berry Jr., Ohio.
<strong>1824</strong> Robert Berry Jr and son George Berry granted land on April 20 in Fayette County, Alabama.
<strong>1825</strong> NOTE: Hannah Cates was the wife of John Morgan Cates, a veteran of War 1812. John Morgan Cates died 11 Oct., 1825. Georgia Cherokee Land Lottery 20, Dec., 1826, 10 District , Land Lot#265.
<strong>1827</strong> Hannah Cates of Pullen's District, Newton Co., Georgia, was granted 202 1/2 acres on the 13th May. Robert Cates mentioned on the land draw is the father of William A. Cates who married Sarah Berry. He died in Gwinnett Co. Dec., 1850, from Chills, age 74. Georgia Cherokee Land Lottery, 78 Eighth District, Third Section, Cherokee Robert Cates Loveless' Gwinnett Co., GA., granted previous to the first day of January, 1838. Robert Cates was a first cousin to John Morgan Cates.
<strong>1826</strong> Lewis E. Berry, April 27, born to Joshua and Anna Thorpe Berry Jr., Ohio.
<strong>1826</strong> William Clarence Berry married Sally Bowles on Nov 20th .
Parents of the groom: Robert Jr. and Mary Camp Berry.
<strong>1826</strong> Elizabeth J. Cates, December, born to Sarah Berry Cates and Wm A. Cates, Georgia.
<strong>1826</strong> Robert Berry, Dec. 30, born to Joshua and Anna Thorpe Berry Jr., Ohio.
<strong>1827</strong> Peter Martin married Rachel Shipman. Parents: Jacob and Rebecca Pigg Shipman
<strong>1828</strong> Nancy Ellison Berry was born in Orange County, North Carolina.
Parents: Lewis & Sally Tolar Berry.
<strong>1829</strong> Wealthy Berry was born to Joshua and Anna Thorpe Berry Jr., Ohio.
<strong>1829</strong> David Berry Jr. married Margaret Erwin September 25th, 1829.
Parents: David & Mary Blalock Berry.
<strong>1829</strong> February 28, George Rufus Berry born in Orange County, North Carolina.
Parents: William C. and Sally Bowles Berry. Fig. 59 Pg. 121.
<strong>1829</strong> David J. Berry removed to Georgia to join his children there.
<strong>1829</strong> Eleander Cates born Nov. 26, 1829, to Sarah Berry Cates & Wm. A. Cates in Georgia.
<strong>1829</strong> Henry Berry married Sarah Roberts 27th April in Henry Co., Georgia.
Groom’s Parents: David J. and Mary Blalock Berry from Orange County, NC.
<strong>1830</strong> Jacob Berry born in Big Cypress, Tennessee.
Parents: David II Berry & Elizabeth Shipman Berry.
<strong>1830</strong> Jacob and Catherine Pickle listed in the 1830 Fayette County, Alabama, Census,
Roll 3, Page 196.
<strong>1830</strong> Thomas Person Berry and William Berry bought land from Henry Berry
in 1830, Deed Bk 24 Page 228 Orange County, and sold it on Sept 19, 1833, to
Samuel Wilson & Felix Wilson. Deed Bk. 25, Page 431, Orange County, NC.
William Berry who listed in the 1830 Orange County Census Roll 123, Page 344,
was not in Orange County in 1840. Robert C. Berry and Charles Wilson
witnessed this Deed. William Berry was most likely William Clarence Berry,
son of Robert Berry Jr.
<strong>1830</strong> In the Orange County Census, Chesterfield Franklin was living next door to
William (Clarence) Berry. Both families were gone when the 1840 Census was taken. Chesterfield Franklin very likely went to Alabama with his son, Theodrick, and Elizabeth Berry Franklin. Chesterfield might have also died in Orange County
because he had other sons who remained and married in Orange County,
North Carolina.
<strong>1830</strong> Robert Berry, age 60-70, and his wife age 60-70, listed in Fayette County,
Alabama, 1830 Census Roll 3 Page 209.
<strong>1831</strong> Sarah E. Cates was born on Nov. 26 to Sarah Berry Cates and Wm. A. Cates, GA.
<strong>1831</strong> John Berry was born to David II Berry & Elizabeth Shipman Berry, Tenn.
<strong>1831</strong> Thomas Person Berry married Sarah Lunsford Sept 28 in Orange County, NC.
Bride’s Parents: William and Edy Brinkley Cozart Lunsford. Groom’s Parents:
William and Hannah Cate Berry. Bondsman: Henry Berry, groom’s uncle.
<strong>1831</strong> Mary Berry married Thomas Howard Barton on 24th Februrary in
Fayette County, Georgia.
Bride’s Parents: David J. and Mary Blalock Berry from Orange County, NC.
<strong>1831</strong> Elizabeth Jane Berry was born to William C. & Sally Bowles Berry, Orange County, NC, on the 17th March.
<strong>1832</strong> Mary Ann Berry was born. She is the daughter of Lydia Berry and may be the
daughter of Isaac Berry.
<strong>1832</strong> Elsie Berry was born to Joshua and Anna Thorpe Berry Jr., in Ohio.
<strong>1832</strong> James H Berry was born to Lewis & Sally Tolar Berry, NC.
<strong>1832</strong> Elizabeth Berry married Theodrick Franklin in Orange County, NC.
Bride’s Mother: Hannah Cate Berry (ex-wife of William Berry).
Bride’s Father: John Berry (unidentified).
Groom’s Father: Chesterfield Franklin.
Bondsman: Bride’s half-brother, Thomas Person Berry.
<strong>1832</strong> Temperance Jane Franklin was born to Elizabeth Berry and Theodrick Franklin,
Orange County, North Carolina. Her grandfather was John Berry (unidentified).
<strong>1832</strong> James A. Berry was born to Lewis and Sally Tolar Berry in NC.
<strong>1833</strong> Ira Berry was born to Lewis & Sally Tolar Berry in NC.
<strong>1833</strong> John Berry, April 19, was born to Joshua and Anna Thorpe Berry Jr. in Ohio.
<strong>1833</strong> Norisa M. Cates born May 22 to Sarah Berry Cates and Wm, A. Cates., GA.
Groom’s Grandparents: David J. and Mary Blalock Berry.
<strong>1833</strong> Henry Berry was born to David II Berry & Elizabeth Shipman Berry, Tenn.
<strong>1833</strong> October 30, Mary Berry (Ashley) married Thomas King, She was Henry Berry’s & Fanny Ashley’s daughter. (See. Pg. 198)
<strong>1833</strong> There was a migration of several Berry relatives and families from Orange County, North Carolina, to Georgia and Alabama this year. Elizabeth Berry
Franklin and her husband were in Alabama in 1835 when their son, Henry Berry Franklin, was born. They returned to Floyd County, Georgia, by the time the 1840 Floyd County, Georgia, Census was taken, Roll 41 Page 256.
<strong>1833</strong> Sally Bowles Berry had died and William Clarence Berry traveled to
Alabama. William had a son by his new wife in Fayette County, Alabama, on July 28th, 1838.
<strong>1833</strong> Roann Frances Berry was born in May to William C. and Sally Bowles.
<strong>1834</strong> William C Berry, Robert C Berry, Elizabeth Berry Franklin removed to Fayette County, Alabama, in the summer.
<strong>1835</strong> Mary Ann Berry was born at Fiddleton. Lydia Berry’s daughter.
<strong>1835</strong> Lucinda Cates was born April 2 to Sarah Berry Cates and William A.
Cates in Ga.
<strong>1835</strong> Henry Berry Franklin was born to Elizabeth Berry and Theodrick Franklin
in Alabama. Grandfathers: Chesterfield Franklin & Unidentified John Berry.
<strong>1835</strong> William Berry was born to David II Berry & Elizabeth Shipman Berry in Tenn.
<strong>1835</strong> William G. Berry married Jane Beck December 8th, 1835.
Parents: David J. and Mary Blalock Berry.
<strong>1836</strong> William H. Berry born to Thomas Person and Sarah Lunsford Berry in Orange
County, NC.
<strong>1837</strong> James L. Franklin was born to Elizabeth Berry & Theodrick Franklin,
Floyd County, Georgia. (Unidentified John Berry Line)
<strong>1837</strong> John Henry Berry born to Lewis & Sally Tolar Berry.
<strong>1837</strong> Mary Berry was born to David II Berry & Elizabeth Shipman Berry in Tenn.
<strong>1838</strong> Samuel Berry was born to Joshua and Anna Thorpe Berry Jr. in Indiana.
<strong>1838</strong> Willie Berry was born to Thomas Person and Sarah Lunsford Berry
in Orange County, NC. No later record has been found about Willie Berry.
<strong>1838</strong> John Berry married Mary Howell who was born in Ala.
Bride’s Parents: Elijah and Judy Maxie Howell.
Groom’s parents: George and Susanna Aldridge Berry.
A descendant of John Berry who was born in NC & died in Rusk County, Tx.,
participated in the Berry Y-DNA project and matches 36 out of 37 markers
to a descendant of William Berry who was born in Orange County, NC .
<strong>1838</strong> On Oct 8th, Joshua Berry, son of Robert and Elizabeth Cates Berry, was
working in a grog shop in Hillsborough as a bartender, when Martin Armstrong
killed him. Armstrong picked Joshua up and threw him to the floor, breaking his
neck. Joshua had refused serving him any more whiskey because he thought
Martin was too drunk. I do not know what relationship there may be between Martin and William Armstrong who bought property from Robert Berry in 1800.
<strong>1838</strong> John Thomas Berry born to William Clarence Berry and his second wife, Massa Tompkins, in Fayette County, Alabama.
<strong>1839</strong> Martha J. Berry was born to Joshua and Anna Thorpe Berry Jr. in Indiana.
<strong>1839</strong> Sarah Berry was born to John & Mary Howell Berry on April 20th, in Fayette County, Alabama.
<strong>1839</strong> Isaac Berry was born to David II Berry & Elizabeth Shipman Berry in Tenn.
<span id="1840"></span>
<strong>1840</strong> Romulus Saunders Cates married Lucinda E. Reeves on February 27, 1840.
Groom’s parents: William and Sarah Berry Cates.
<strong>1840</strong> Jacob and Catherine Pickle listed in the Monroe, Mississippi, Roll 218 Page 71.
<strong>1849</strong> Mary Jane Berry was born on May 28th to William Clarence Berry and his second wife, Massa Tompkins, in Fayette County, Alabama.
<strong>1840</strong> Martha Cates married Miles N. Hunt.
<strong>1840</strong> Phoebe Berry was born to Lewis & Sally Tolar Berry in NC.
<strong>1841</strong> William Berry was born on April 13 to Joshua and Anna Thorpe Berry Jr. in
Indiana.
<strong>1841</strong> James Berry was born to David II Berry & Elizabeth Shipman Berry in Tenn.
<strong>1842</strong> John Robert Berry was born Sept 25th , to Thomas Person & Sarah Lunsford Berry in Orange County ,North Carolina.
<strong>1843</strong> Joseph Berry was born to Joshua and Anna Thorpe Berry Jr. in Indiana.
<strong>1843</strong> Robert Berry was born to Lewis & Sally Tolar Berry in Orange County, NC.
<strong>1843</strong> Robert N. Franklin was born to Elizabeth Berry and Theodrick Franklin in
Cave Spring, Floyd County, Georgia. Grandfather: Unidentified John Berry.
<strong>1843</strong> William C. Franklin was born to Elizabeth Berry and Theodrick Franklin in
Cave Spring, Floyd County, Georgia. Grandfather: Unidentified John Berry.
<strong>1843</strong> Sanford C. Berry was born to John & Mary Howell Berry in Alabama.
<strong>1843</strong> Henry Tompkins Berry was born to William Clarence Berry and his second wife, Massa Tompkins, in Fayette County, Alabama.
<strong>1844</strong> Elizabeth Berry was born to David II Berry & Elizabeth Shipman Berry in Tenn.
<strong>1844</strong> Isaac Cates married Serena Crow on the 10th of October in Henry County, Georgia
<strong>1845</strong> James P. Berry was born to Thomas Person and Sarah Lunsford Berry in NC.
<strong>1846</strong> Thomas Berry was born to John & Mary Howell Berry in Alabama.
<strong>1846</strong> David Berry was born to David II Berry & Elizabeth Shipman Berry in Tenn.
<strong>1846</strong> Eli Berry married Judy Betsey Taylor Dec.21st in Orange County, N. C.
Groom’s Parents: Joshua and Nancy Ellison Berry from Orange County, NC.
<strong>1846-48</strong> Mexican war
<strong>1847</strong> Thomas Benjamin Franklin was born to Elizabeth Berry and Theodrick Franklin in Cave Spring, Floyd County, Georgia. Grandfather: Unidentified John Berry.
<strong>1847</strong> James Berry was born to John & Mary Howell Berry in Texas.
<strong>1847</strong> Lucinda Temperance Berry was born on December 1st to William Clarence Berry and his second wife, Massa Tompkins, in Fayette County, Alabama.
<strong>1848</strong> George Rufus Berry married Catherine Farquhar on January 19th in Fayette County, Alabama.
<strong>1849</strong> Eleander Cates married G. G. Baker about 1849.
<strong>1849</strong> Amanda Berry was born to John & Mary Howell Berry in Rusk County, Texas.
<strong>1849</strong> Alamance County was formed from the west part of Orange County.
<strong>1849</strong> Georgianna Franklin was born to Elizabeth Berry and Theodrick Franklin in
Cave Spring, Floyd County, Georgia. Grandfather: Unidentified John Berry.
<strong>1849</strong> Rebecca Berry was born to David II Berry & Elizabeth Shipman Berry in Tenn.
<strong>1849</strong> Lucy Berry was born to Eli and Judy Betsey Taylor Berry in NC.
<strong>1850</strong> Orange County bought $100,000 of railroad bonds to entice the
railroad to come through the city of Hillsborough.
<strong>1850</strong> December 18 Samuel Hunley married Mary Ann Berry. Mother: Lydia Berry.
Father: Isaac Berry.
<strong>1850</strong> Jacob and Catherine Pickle listed in the Monroe, Mississippi, Roll M432_378.
<strong>1851</strong> David Norman married Elizabeth Yarbrough on April 27 in Henry County, Georgia.
<strong>1851</strong> Martha Berry was born to David II Berry & Elizabeth Shipman Berry in Tenn.
<strong>1851</strong> Sarah E. Cates married Robert L. Hicks about 1852.
<strong>1851</strong> Sarah E. Berry was born to George Rufus & Katie Farquhar Berry in Alabama.
First grandchild of William C. & Sally Bowles Berry.
<strong>1851</strong> Martha Minerva Berry was born on April 29th to William Clarence Berry and his second wife, Massa Tompkins, in Fayette County, Alabama.
<strong>1851</strong> Mary Norman was born to David Norman & Elizabeth Yarbrough in GA.
<strong>1852</strong> Thomas Person Berry built his new home in Orange County, North Carolina.
<strong>1852</strong> Robert W. Berry was born to John & Mary Howell Berry in Texas.
<strong>1853</strong> Annie Berry was born to Eli & Judy Betsey Taylor Berry in Orange County, N. C.
<strong>1853</strong> First North Carolina State Fair was held in Raleigh October 18th to 21st.
<strong>1853</strong> William Smith Berry was born on August 18th to William Clarence Berry and his second wife, Massa Tompkins, in Fayette County, Alabama.
<strong>1853</strong> John Norman was born to David and Elizabeth Yarbrough Norman in Georgia.
<strong>1853</strong> Hiram Howard married Sarah Berry 24th Nov. Howard was Sarah’s first husband.
Bride’s Parents: John & Mary Howell Berry, Rusk County, Texas.
Bride’s Grandparents: George and Susanna Aldridge Berry.
<strong>1854</strong> Elizabeth J. Cates married Joshua P. Berry on January 31st.
Groom’s Parents: David J. and Mary Blalock Berry.
<strong>1854</strong> Alexander Howard Berry was born to John & Mary Howell Berry,
New Danville, Rusk County, Texas.
<strong>1855</strong> Lucinda Cates married L. Silva about 1855 in Georgia.
<strong>1855</strong> Amanda Narcissa Berry was born on April 26 to William Clarence Berry and his second wife, Massa Tompkins, in Fayette County, Alabama.
<strong>1855</strong> Robert Norman was born to David Norman & Elizabeth Yarbrough in Georgia.
<strong>1855</strong> Sarah Berry was born to Eli and Judy Betsey Taylor Berry in Orange County, NC
<strong>1855</strong> Louisa J. Berry was born to John & Mary Howell Berry in Rusk County, Texas.
<strong>1855</strong> Henry Berry died in Orange County, North Carolina.
The youngest son of Robert & Elizabeth Cate Berry. Henry was 79 years old.
<strong>1855</strong>-<strong>1860</strong> Elizabeth Jane Berry married G. Whitson in Alabama.
<strong>1856</strong> North Carolina Railroad was completed from Goldsboro to Charlotte.
<strong>1856</strong> Mary Berry Barton, daughter of David J. and Mary Blalock Berry, died 21st
of April in Clayton County, Georgia.
<strong>1857</strong> Martha Norman was born to David Norman & Elizabeth Yarbrough in Georgia.
<strong>1857</strong> Eliza Berry was born to John & Mary Howell Berry in Rusk County, Texas.
<strong>1857</strong> John William Hiram Howard born Sept 3rd to Hiram & Sarah Berry Howard, in Danville, Rusk County, Texas . Hiram was Sarah Berry’s second husband.
<strong>1857</strong> William H. Berry married Sarah Frances King on 6th August
in Orange County, NC.
Bride’s Parents: Thomas and Mary King of Orange County, NC.
Groom’s Parents: Thomas Person and Sarah Lunsford Berry, Orange County, NC.
William H. Berry and Sarah Francis King were second cousins.
<strong>1858</strong> William Norman was born to David Norman & Elizabeth Yarbrough in Georgia.
<strong>1857</strong>-<strong>1859</strong> Worldwide epidemic (one of the largest flu epidemics on record).
Influenza possible cause of death of four Berry family members recorded this year.
<strong>1858</strong> William H. Berry died in Orange County. NC.
His wife of one year was Sarah King Berry.
Parents: Thomas Person and Sarah Lunsford Berry.
<strong>1858</strong> Hannah Cate Berry died in Orange County, NC. She was the
daughter of William and Elizabeth Cate. She is also the ex-wife of William Berry and the mother of Thomas Person Berry and Elizabeth Berry Franklin.
She is also my 3rd great-grandmother.
<strong>1858</strong> Lewis Berry died of the flu in Orange County, NC.
Widow: Sally Tolar Berry
Parents: Joshua and Nancy Ellison Berry.
<strong>1858</strong> Thedorick Franklin died in Floyd County, Georgia. He was the husband of Elizabeth Berry Franklin, who was daughter of Hannah and John Berry (unidentified).
<strong>1858</strong> Nancy Ellison Berry, Joshua’s widow, may have died from the flu this year also. She listed in the 1850 Orange County Census, but not in the 1860 Census .
<strong>1859</strong> Frances M. McClure married widow Sarah Berry Howard on Jan. 5th in
Rusk County, Texas. McClure was Sarah Berry’s 3rd husband.
<strong>1859</strong> Emma Berry was born to John & Mary Howell Berry in Rusk Co., Texas.
<strong>1859</strong> John Saunders Berry was born on Jan 6th to Eli and Judy Betsey Taylor Berry in Orange County, NC
<span id="1860"></span>
<strong>1860</strong> Elizabeth Berry Franklin was visiting her half-brother, Thomas Person Berry, when the 1860 Orange County Census was taken. Their mother, Hannah Cate Berry, had died in 1858. Elizabeth's husband, Theodrick Franklin, also died in 1858.
<strong>1860</strong> Norman S. McClure was born in Rusk County, Texas.
Parents: Frances M. & Sarah Berry McClure.
Grandparents: John & Mary Howell Berry.
<strong>1860</strong> Sally Tolar Berry, widow of Lewis Berry, was living with her daughter Nancy E. Berry Waggoner & son-in-law James Waggoner in Union County, Kentucky, and next door to her son Ira and his wife, Mary Wynn Berry.
<strong>1860</strong> Rosa Ann “Roan” Frances Berry married Riley Kissiah on December 25 in
the home of her brother, George Rufus Berry.
<strong>1860</strong> Mary Jane Berry married Enoch Kissah in the home of her half-brother, George Rufus Berry.
<strong>1861</strong> Sarah E. Norman was born to David & Elizabeth Yarbrough Norman, Georgia.
<strong>1861</strong> Eli D. Berry was born on May 3rd to Eli & Judy Betsey Taylor Berry, in Orange County, North Carolina.
<strong>1861</strong> On April 12th the Civil War began in an effort to split the Union. .
<strong>1861</strong> May 20th North Carolina Convention at Raleigh adopted ordinance of secession.
Aug. 29th Forts Hatteras and Clark captured by Federal forces.
<strong>1861</strong> John Robert Berry- Pvt. Co. E 31st Regiment, North Carolina.
Resided in Orange County, North Carolina. Enlisted at age 19, October 6, 1861. Present and accounted for until captured at Roanoke Island on February 8, 1862, paroled at Elizabeth City on February 21, 1862. Returned to duty on September 15, 1862. Wounded in right hand and shoulder. Captured at Cold Harbor,Virginia, May 31 or June 1, 1864.
John R. Berry was hospitalized at Washington, D.C., on August 16, 1864,
transferred to Elmira, New York, August 27,1864. Released at Elmira on June 23, 1865, after taking the following Oath of Allegiance: "I pledge to uphold the
Constitution of the United States and to obey the laws of that union, including all laws and proclamations which have been made during the existing rebellion with reference to the emancipation of slaves.”
John Robert Berry was then put on a train that would return him to his
home. After riding from Elmira, New York, to Hillsborough, North Carolina, he
walked the 14 miles from Hillsborough to Fiddleton. My mother told me that he walked all night and arrived home early in the morning before the sun came up. He did not want to wake his parents so he lay down on a log bench across the road from his home and went to sleep. When the warm sun woke him up he went across the road to greet his relieved and happy family. The war was over and he was dirty, hungry, and very tired.
PARTIAL HISTORY OF THE 31st REGIMENT of NORTH CAROLINA
Fought on 8 Feb 1862 at Roanoke Island, NC.
Fought on 8 Feb 1862 at Craven County, NC.
Fought on 8 Mar 1862 at Bermuda Hundred, VA.
Fought on 2 Oct 1862.
Fought on 15 Nov 1862 at Goldsboro, NC.
Fought on 16 Dec 1862 at White Hall, NC.
Fought on 16 Jul 1863 at Fort Wagner, SC.
Fought on 17 Jul 1863 at Fort Wagner, SC.
Fought on 18 Jul 1863 at Charleston, SC.
Fought on 1 Oct 1863 at Goldsboro, NC.
Fought on 31 Jan 1864 at Smithfield, VA.
Fought on 13 May 1864.
Fought on 15 May 1864 at Richmond, VA.
Fought on 15 May 1864 at Petersburg, VA.
Fought on 16 May 1864 at Drewry's Bluff, VA.
Fought on 20 May 1864 at Bermuda Hundred, VA.
Fought on 1 Jun 1864 at Cold Harbor, VA.
More battles were fought by THE 31st REGIMENT of NORTH CAROLINA but John Robert Berry was a Prisoner of War during that time period.
<strong>1861</strong> John Thomas Berry enlisted in the 26th Alabama Regiment Infantry Company A.
<strong>1861</strong> Francis Marian Berry was born to John & Mary Howell Berry in Gladwater, Gregg County, Texas.
<strong>1862</strong> January, Riley Kissiah enlisted in the 41st AlA. Regiment Infantry Company H.
<strong>1862</strong> On December 31st Riley Kissiah was killed in the Battle of Stone River at
Murfreesboro, Tennessee.
<strong>1862</strong> Federal forces led by Generals Butler and Burnside captured Roanoke Island on
Feb.8th. (John Robert Berry was captured by the Union Army in this battle.) They captured New Bern (March 14th.), Washington, NC (March 21st.), Fort Macon (April 26th),and Plymouth (Dec 13th).
<strong>1862</strong> April 6th Obidiah Echols in Auburn, Alabama, wrote a letter to Hillsborough, NC,
concerning Preston Berry, an orphan who descended from Thomas & Mary Berry, who were married in 1809 in Orange Co.
<strong>1862</strong> In May of this year, Henry Tompkins Berry enlisted in the 41st Alabama Regiment Infantry Company H.
1862 On Aug 1st Enoch Kissiah enlisted in in the 41st Alabama Regiment Infantry
Company H.
<strong>1862</strong> George Rufus Berry enlisted in Company I 56th Regiment Alabama Cavalry.
<strong>1862</strong> Dec. 15th Julia Ann Berry born to William Clarence Berry and his second wife, Massa Tompkins, in Fayette County, Alabama.
<strong>1863</strong> Robert A. Taylor married widow Sarah Berry McClure May 18th Rusk
County, Texas. (Robert Taylor was Sarah Berry’s fourth husband.)
<strong>1864</strong> James Stanford Taylor was born to Robert A. Taylor and his new wife, Sarah Berry, from Rusk Co., Tx. Grandparents: John & Mary Howell Berry, Rusk County, Texas.
<strong>1865</strong> James David Berry was born to Isaac & Amanda Josephine Blackwood Berry in Tenn.
<strong>1865</strong> March 29th Doc. Edward Berry was born to Eli & Judy Betsey Taylor in Orange County, NC.
<strong>1865</strong> April 9th The Civil War ended.
<strong>1865</strong> April 14th Abraham Lincoln was assassinated by John Wilkes Booth.
<strong>1865</strong> April 26th General Johnston was staying in Hillsborough at the home of
Alexander and Elizabeth Wilson Dixon when he negotiated the surrender of
his troops to General Sherman at the Bennett House near Durham. Alexander
and Elizabeth Dixon were the GG Aunt & Uncle of my Grandmother, Ida Ann
Wilson, who married my grandfather, Wiley P. Berry, in 1895 in Orange County, NC.
<strong>1865</strong> John Robert Berry married Elizabeth Francis Bowling on Nov.30th in
Orange County, NC.
Groom’s Parents: Thomas Person and Sarah Lunsford Berry.
Bride’s Parents: William and Martha Bowling.
<strong>1866</strong> Emma G. Berry was born to John Robert & Elizabeth Frances Bowling
Berry in Orange County, NC.
<strong>1866</strong> Sept. 11 Henry Thomas Berry married Elizabeth Farquhar in Fayette County, Ala.
<strong>1866</strong> James Emory Taylor was born to Robert A. Taylor & his wife, Sarah Berry,
in TX.
Grandparents: John & Mary Howell Berry, Rusk County, Texas.
<strong>1867</strong> George Rufus Berry, John Thomas Berry, Henry Tompkins Berry and
Roan Frances Kizziah joined a wagon train bound for Burnet County, Texas.
<strong>1867</strong> Robert Lee Berry was born on March 19th in Texas to John Thomas &
Elizabeth Ann Kissiah Berry.
<strong>1867</strong> William A.A. Berry was born in Texas to George Rufus and Catherine Farquhar Berry.
<strong>1868</strong> Cora D. Berry was born to John Robert & Elizabeth Frances Bowling Berry
in Orange County, NC.
<strong>1868</strong> Sarah Catherine Berry married William F. Crowley on October 14th in
Fayette County, Alabama.
<strong>1868</strong> Sarah E. Berry, daughter of George Rufus & Katie Farquhar Berry,
married William L. Long on December 27th.
<strong>1869</strong> Mollie E. Berry was born to Eli & Judy Betsey Taylor Berry in Orange County, N C.
<strong>1869</strong> Sarah Berry married Henry B. Stoneham Nov.29th. ,
Parents: John & Mary Howell Berry. (Henry was Sarah Berry’s fourth husband.)
<strong>1869</strong> Wiley P. Berry was born to John Robert & Elizabeth Frances Bowling Berry in Orange County, NC.
<strong>1870</strong> Francis B. Norman born to David & Elizabeth Yarbrough Norman in Georgia.
<strong>1870</strong> Sarah Berry Cates died April 4th, in Jonesboro, Clayton County, Georgia.
Parents; David J. and Mary Berry.
<strong>1870</strong> Green Berry Cates was the son of Romulus Saunders, grandson of William A. & Sally Berry Cates, great-grandson of David J. & Mary Blalock Berry, and the great-great-grandson of Robert and Elizabeth Cates Berry.
Green B. Cates was living with William Camp and his family on July 5th, 1870, when the Clayton County , GA., census was taken. William Camp was a cousin and a descendant of Mary Berry Camp, David J. Berry’s sister.
<strong>1870</strong> Sarah Lunsford Berry, wife of Thomas Person Berry, died 27th of December
in Orange County, NC. Her grave was found on May 20th, 2006, in the original land grant property cemetery. Location: N 36 14’ 07.3” W 79 01’ 30.8”
<strong>1871</strong> William Clarence Berry and his family moved to Lampasas, Texas.
<strong>1871</strong> John W. Berry was born in Orange County, NC. John never married.
Parents; John Robert and Elizabeth Frances Bowling Berry.
<strong>1871</strong> Thomas Person Berry married his second wife, Lucy A. Brown, on the
24th of August in Orange County, NC .
<strong>1871</strong> James P. Berry married Artelia Wedding on 11th Sept. in Orange County, NC.
Bride’s Parents: Joseph and Louisa Wedding from Orange County, NC.
Groom’s Parents: Thomas Person and Sarah Lunsford Berry, Orange County, NC.
<strong>1872</strong> Edna H. Berry June 1st , born to Thomas Person and Lucy Brown Berry.
<strong>1872</strong> Mary Elizabeth Booher was born on March 22, 1872, in Berlin, Johnson County,
Arkansas.
<strong>1873</strong> Martha Bowers Berry June 27th born to Thomas Person & Lucy Brown Berry.
<strong>1873</strong> Bettie S. Norman was born to David and Elizabeth Yarbrough Norman in GA.
<strong>1873</strong> Mary Berry was born to John Robert and Elizabeth Frances Bowling Berry in NC.
<strong>1874</strong> Etta E. Berry was born September 11 to Thomas Person & Lucy Brown Berry in NC.
<strong>1875</strong> Ada Berry was born to John Robert& Elizabeth Frances Bowling Berry in
Orange County, NC.
<strong>1876</strong> Ida Ann Wilson was born on Sept. 30th in Orange County, NC.
Parents: Eli and Mary Jane Coleman Wilson.
She would grow up to marry Wiley P. Berry. They are my grandparents.
<strong>1876</strong> John Thomas Berry moved his family back to Fayette County, Alabama, from Texas
<strong>1877</strong> Della Thomas Berry was born Feb 8th to Thomas Person and Lucy Brown Berry.
<strong>1877</strong> Willie Adolphus Berry was born to John Robert and Elizabeth Frances Bowling Berry in Orange County, NC.
<strong>1878</strong> Amanda N. Berry married William T. Hutto in Texas on March 12th .
Parents: William Clarence & Massa Tompkins Berry.
<strong>1878</strong> William Clarence Berry died on Sept 8th in Burnet County, Texas.
<strong>1879</strong> Julia Ann Berry married Elbert J. Barton in Burnet County, Texas, on Jan. 1.
Parents : William Clarence & Massa Thompkins Berry.
<strong>1879</strong> Joshua Berry Jr. died on May 29th in Benton County, Iowa.
<strong>1879</strong> Lucinda Temperance Berry married William M. Cook in Burnet County,Texas,
on January 1st . Parents : William Clarence & Massa Thompkins Berry.
<span id="1880"></span>
<strong>1880</strong> William Smith Berry (Black Bill) married Fannie L. Davis on December 2nd . Parents: William Clarence & Massa Tompkins Berry.
<strong>1880</strong> Winnies Berry Norman’s daughter, Lucinder Norman Burke was living in
Blue Creek, White, Georgia; Source Citation: Year: 1880; Roll: T9_171;
Family History Film: 1254171; Page: 542.3000; Enumeration District: 190;
Image: 0468.
<strong>1880</strong> Hinrick Dippold and Sarah Berry were married on 15th Feb.
Sarah’s Parents: John & Mary Howell Berry. Hinrick Dippold is Sarah Berry’s fifth husband.
<strong>1880</strong> Thomas Ewart Berry was born to John Robert & Elizabeth Frances Bowling
Berry, Orange County, North Carolina.
<strong>1880</strong> Daniel R. Berry was born on Dec 23 to Thomas Person and Lucy Brown Berry
in Orange County, North Carolina.
<strong>1881</strong> Durham County was formed from the east part of Orange County, fixing the
Orange County boundaries as they are today.
<strong>1881</strong> On January 12th Lucy Brown Berry, Thomas Person Berry’s second wife, died
from complications at childbirth. They had four daughters and a son.
<strong>1882</strong> David Berry died in Cypress Inn, Tenn. (Son of Thomas & Sarah Cate Berry)
Grandparents: Robert and Elizabeth Cates Berry, Orange County, NC.
<strong>1883</strong> Thomas Person Berry married his 3rd wife, Elizabeth Peed Bowles, on the 6th day
of December in Orange County, NC.
<strong>1884</strong> Robert Berry, son of David J. and Mary Blalock Berry, who was born in Orange County, NC, died in Milton, Georgia, after 1884.
<strong>1884</strong> Thomas Person Berry died on April 30th in Orange County, North Carolina. He left 5 orphan children, with the oldest being only 9 years of age.
<strong>1884</strong> Emma G. Berry married John Saunders Berry 15th Oct. in Orange County, NC.
Bride’s Parents: John Robert and Elizabeth Frances Bowling Berry.
Groom’s Parents: Eli and Betsey Taylor Berry.
Emma Berry is a descendant of the William Berry line and John Saunders Berry is a descendant of the Joshua Berry line. They were second cousins.
<strong>1886</strong> Annie E. Berry was born on July 22nd to John Saunders and Emma Berry in NC.
<strong>1886</strong> Pattie S. Berry was born to John Robert and Elizabeth Frances Bowling
Berry in Orange County, NC,
<strong>1887</strong> Emory Howard born on June 27th, 1887, to John & Mary Howard in Arkansas.
<strong>1890</strong> Albert Galiton Whitson died on April 22nd. He was the husband of Elizabeth Jane Berry, daughter of William C. and Sally Bowles Berry.
<strong>1892</strong> Vulger L. Berry was born on April 22nd to John Saunders and Emma Berry in NC.
<strong>1892</strong> Fannie L. Davis, wife of William Smith Berry, died on Jan 27th at childbirth.
<strong>1893</strong> Charles Eli Berry Sr. was born Sept 24th to John Saunders & Emma Berry in NC.
<strong>1893</strong> Mary Berry married James Webb Sr. in Orange County, N.C.
Bride’s Parents: John Robert and Elizabeth Frances Bowling Berry.
<strong>1893</strong> Elizabeth Jane Berry Whitson died on September 22nd. She was the daughter
of William Clarence and Sally Bowles Berry. She was born in Orange County, NC, and died in Walker County, Alabama.
<strong>1894</strong> William Smith Berry (Black Bill) married Lillie Ann Webb on Sept. 20th.
<strong>1894</strong> James P. Berry Jr. was born July 10th, and died on the 12th of May, 1896.
Parents: James P. & Artelia Wedding Berry, Orange County, North Carolina.
James is buried at the Fiddleton Cemetery. GPS (N 36 14’ 07.3” W 79 01’ 30.8 )
<strong>1895</strong> Wiley P. Berry married Ida Ann Wilson on June 2nd in Orange County, NC. Groom’s Parents: John Robert and Elizabeth Frances Bowling Berry,
Bride’s Parents: Charles Eli and Mary Jane Coleman Wilson.
Their wedding was performed in the bride’s home.
<strong>1896</strong> James P. Berry Jr.died May 12th. Parents: James P. & Artelia Wedding Berry.
We located his headstone on May 20th , 2006, on the Original Land Grant of Robert Berry. His was one of the 6 engraved headstones in the Berry Fiddleton Cemetery. There were 21 fieldstone & slate headstones without engraving.
<strong>1896</strong> William Eugene Berry was born on Sept 1st to Wiley P. and Ida Ann Wilson Berry.
<strong>1896</strong> Ada Berry married William Jackson Rogers in Orange County, NC.
Bride’s Parents: John Robert and Elizabeth Frances Bowling Berry.
<strong>1896</strong> Minnie Berry was born on Nov. 28th in Orange County, NC.
Parents: John Saunders and Emma Berry.
<strong>1897</strong> James Stanford Taylor married Agnes Schrader on March 3rd.
Groom’s Parents: Robert A. and Sarah Berry Taylor.
Bride’s Parents: Unknown from Germany.
<strong>1899</strong> Mary Elizabeth Berry (Maye) was born on Aug 23rd in Orange County, NC.
She was named for her two grandmothers:
“Mary” for Mary Jane Coleman Wilson & “Elizabeth” for her grandmother
Elizabeth Frances Bowling Berry.

<a href="#">Back to top</a>
<h5>Last updated February, 5, 2015</h5>
