---
title: "1810"
---

<strong>1810</strong> Robert Berry Jr. did not list in Orange County North Carolina Census this year. Robert Berry Jr. had moved to Person County, North Carolina, and listed there in 1810. He and his family moved to Fayette County Aabama and he and George Berry, his son, were granted land there in 1824  Robert Berry Jr was listed in  the 1830 Fayette County, Alabama Census. Robert Berry and his wife were listed in the age 60-70 bracket. Roll 3 Page 209 Robert Berry Line.

<strong>1810</strong> Hannah Cate Berry listed head of household in the 3rd US Census of Orange County NC. In the listing she listed 4 boys under 10, one girl under 10 and two women over 26 and under 45 William and Thomas Berry their husbands were both gone Sarah and Hannah were living together with their children Hannah was 40 Sarah was 29. Hannah's boys, William Clarence Berry was October 17th 1803, Robert C. Berry was born 14th of April 1805 and Thomas Person Berry was born 1 June 1808.
Sarah's two children: Eleanor was born 1801 and David two was born 1802. Both families listed a son in 1800 census but neither is known to have survived.

<strong>1810</strong> Nancy Berry was born in Orange County NC Parents Joshua and Nancy Ellison Berry Joshua Berry Line

<strong>1810</strong> Henry Berry born Orange County NC.Parents, David J. and Mary Blalock Berry, Henry Berry married 4/27/1829 Sarah Roberts in Henry Co Ga David J. Berry Line

<strong>1810</strong> George N Berry was born in Orange Co NC Parents: David J Berry & Mary Blalock

<strong>1810</strong> Josiah Berry was born in Person  Co. NC, Parents: Thomas Berry and Mary Berry. grandson  of William Riley and Elizabeth Berry.
