---
title: "1900-1999 Timeline"
---

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th colspan="2">
<h3><strong>Click the year to jump to</strong></h3>
</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#1910">1910</a></td>
<td><a href="#1940">1940</a></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<strong>1900</strong> Cora S. Berry was born on May 26 in Orange County, NC.
Parents: John Saunders and Emma Berry.
<strong>1900</strong> Willie Adolphus Berry married Fannie Bennett Hall on June3rd in
Orange County, NC.
Parents: John Robert and Elizabeth Frances Bowling Berry,
<strong>1900</strong> Lizzie (Elizabeth Farquhar) Berry died in Texas. She was the wife of Henry
Tompkins Berry.
<strong>1901</strong> Henry Tompkins Berry married Miss A. Mary Brown on June 11th
in Lampasas Texas.
<strong>1901</strong> Clyde Hall Berry was born on March 30th in Orange County, NC.
Parents: Willie Adolphus and Fannie Bennett Hall Berry.
<strong>1902</strong> Anne Belle Berry died on October 31st and is buried in the Fiddleton cemetery.
Parents: James P. & Artelia Wedding Berry,
<strong>1903</strong> Thomas Young Berry was born on May 11th in Orange County, NC.
Parents: Wiley P. and Ida Ann Wilson Berry.
<strong>1903</strong> Walter G. Berry was born July 26th Orange County, NC.
Parents: John Saunders and Emma Berry.
<strong>1903</strong> Mable Lee Berry was born in Orange County, NC.
Parents: Willie Adolphus and Fannie Bennett Hall Berry.
<strong>1903</strong> Thomas Ewart Berry married Mary Ella Tilley in Orange County, NC.
Parents: John Robert and Elizabeth Frances Bowling Berry.
<strong>1904</strong> Elizabeth Frances Bowling Berry, wife of John Robert Berry, died Aug.11th
in Orange County, NC. She is buried in the cemetery at Berry's Grove Baptist
Church in Orange County, NC. Elizabeth and her husband gave the land
to build the Church on the 16th day of April, 1888.
<strong>1904</strong> Pattie S. Berry married F.C. Wilson in Orange County, NC.
Parents: John Robert and Elizabeth Frances Bowling Berry.
<strong>1905</strong> Bettie Bowling Berry was born in Orange County, NC.
Parents: Willie Adolphus and Fannie Bennett Hall Berry.
<strong>1905</strong> Sarah Catherine “Katie” Farquhar died on Jan 23rd in Burnet County, Texas.
Katie was the wife of George Rufus Berry.
<strong>1907</strong> Lula Berry was born in Orange County, NC.
Parents: Willie Adolphus and Fannie Bennett Hall Berry.
<strong>1908</strong> <a href="/ancestors/sallymalenaberrync/">Sally Malena Berry</a> (1908 - 2002) was born July 20th in Orange County, NC.
Malena married Jesse Clyde Henderson and they are my parents.
NOTE: “Maye”, Mary Elizabeth Berry, was named Mary for her maternal grandmother Mary Jane Coleman, and Elizabeth for her paternal grandmother Elizabeth Francis Bowling.
Sally Malena Berry was named Sally for her paternal great-grandmother
Sarah “Sally” Lunsford, and Malena for her maternal great-grandmother Malena
Barbary Brown.
This is an interesting naming pattern.
The first daughter’s first name was her maternal grandmother’s first name and her second name was her paternal grandmother’s first name.
The paternal and maternal relationship was reversed for the second daughter and stepped back one generation.
The second daughter’s first name was her paternal great-grandmother’s first name and her second name was her maternal great-grandmother’s first name.
<strong>1909</strong> George Rufus Berry died on December 25th in Burnet County, Texas.
He was born in Orange County, North Carolina.
<strong>1909</strong> Milton Banks Berry was born in Orange County, NC.
Parents: Willie Adolphus and Fannie Bennett Hall Berry.
1911 Earnest John Berry was born in Cypress Inn, Tenn.
Parents: Ode and Emma Lee Stuits Berry.
<span id="1910"></span>
<strong>1911</strong> John Lambert Berry was born in Orange County, NC.
Parents: Willie Adolphus and Fannie Bennett Hall Berry.
<strong>1912</strong> Woodrow Wilson Berry was born on April 3rd in Orange County, NC.
Parents: Wiley P. and Ida Ann Wilson Berry.
<strong>1912</strong> Feb. 15th James P. Berry, son of Thomas Person and Sarah Lunsford Berry, died in Orange County, N.C. Two of James and Artelia Berry's children are buried in the Fiddleton Plantation Berry graveyard where Robert and Elizabeth Cates Berry are buried. James P. Berry Sr. may also be buried there.
<strong>1914</strong> Wiley Harold Berry was born March 9th in Orange County, NC.
Parents: Wiley P. and Ida Ann Wilson Berry.
<strong>1914</strong> Fannie Bennett Berry was born Dec 24th in Orange County, NC.
Parents: Willie Adolphus and Fannie Bennett Hall Berry.
<strong>1916</strong> Lucille Jones Berry was born July 4th in Orange County, NC.
Parents: Willie Adolphus and Fannie Bennett Hall Berry.
<strong>1916</strong> Infant Son lived a few days, born Sept. 23rd in Orange County,
NC . He is buried at Berry's Grove Baptist Church.
Parents: Wiley P. and Ida Ann Wilson Berry.
<strong>1917</strong> June 7th Sarah Berry Dippold, daughter of John and Mary Howell Berry, died
in Galveston,, Tx. She was living on 14th Street in Galveston in the 1900 Texas
Census. Peter M. Blanchet and his wife, Clara Blanchet, we living in the same house.
1917 John Robert Berry died 10th October in Orange County. He was the husband
of Elizabeth Frances Bowling and the son of Thomas Person and Sarah Lunsford
Berry. He is buried in the Cemetery at Berry's Grove Baptist Church in Orange
County, NC. John and his wife donated the land the Church was built on.
<strong>1918</strong> Willie Adolphus Berry Jr was born in Orange County, NC.
Parents: Willie Adolphus and Fannie Bennett Hall Berry.
<strong>1919</strong> Wiley P. Berry Jr. (1917 - 2007) was born Sept 1st in Orange County, NC.
Parents: Wiley P. and Ida Ann Wilson Berry.
<strong>1921</strong> William Eugene Berry married Pattie Alma McAdams on the 6th of June in Orange County, NC.
Parents: Wiley P. and Ida Ann Berry, Orange County, NC.
<strong>1921</strong> Virginia Gertrude Berry was born in Orange County, NC.
Parents: Willie Adolphus and Fannie Bennett Hall Berry.
<strong>1921</strong> Joshua and his brother Robert I. Berry were killed in Jonesboro, Georgia,
on Oct. 20th when a train struck their truck loaded with produce.
They were David J. and Mary Blalock Berry’s grandsons.
<strong>1922</strong> Roan Frances Berry Kissiah died on August 11th in McCulloch County, Texas.
<strong>1923</strong> John W. Berry died on December 22nd in Orange County, N.C. He was a bachelor son of John Robert and Elizabeth Bowling Berry.
<strong>1925</strong> Brodie Shakespeare Carr married Mary Ethel Berry on 17 Sept., Hillsborough, NC.
Bride’s Parents: Wiley P. and Ida Ann Berry, Orange County, NC.
<strong>1925</strong> Thomas Young Berry died on June 8th of typhoid fever. He was the son of WP Berry Sr. and Ida Ann Wilson Berry, Orange County, NC.
<strong>1928</strong> September 22nd Jessie Clyde Henderson married <a href="/ancestors/sallymalenaberrync/">Sally Malena Berry</a> in Wilson, NC. Bride’s Parents: Wiley P. and Ida Ann Berry, Orange County, NC.
Groom’s Parents:William Jackson and Mary Jane Horne Henderson, Gaffney, SC.
1929 Edna H. Berry Rogers died on April 3rd. She was the daughter of Thomas Person and Lucy Brown Berry.
<strong>1932</strong> Wiley P. Berry, my grandfather, was elected Orange County Commissioner
from 1932 until 1936.
<strong>1935</strong> Wiley Harold Berry married Hilda Elizabeth Nichols .
Groom’s Parents: Wiley P. and Ida Ann Berry, Orange County, NC.
<strong>1936</strong> Woodrow Wilson Berry married Ora Mae Murray on the 7th July in Jacksonville ,
NC, Craven County. Groom’s Parents: Wiley P. & Ida Ann Berry, Orange County, NC. ,
<strong>1939</strong> Martha Bowers Berry Wrenn died on December 29th. She is the daughter of Thomas P. and Lucy Brown Berry.
<span id="1940"></span>
<strong>1941</strong> Ida Ann Wilson Berry was struck and killed by an automobile on May 4th in
Mebane, Alamance County, NC. She was taken back home to be buried at Berry's Grove Baptist Church Cemetery in Orange County, NC.
<strong>1941</strong> Sunday Morning Dec 7th. The Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor, Oahu, Hawaii.
<strong>1943</strong> James Stanford Taylor died. Parents: Robert A. and Sarah Berry Taylor.
<strong>1945</strong> Emma G Berry, daughter of John Robert and Elizabeth F. Bowling Berry,
died on Feb. 12th.
<strong>1947</strong> Cora D. Berry Breeze died on September 18th in Person County, N.C. She was the daughter of John Robert and Elizabeth F. Bowling Berry.
<strong>1949</strong> Wiley P. Berry Jr. (1917 - 2007) married Mary Berry.
Groom’s Parents: Wiley P. and Ida Ann Berry, Orange County, NC.
<strong>1957</strong> Daniel R. Berry died on October 8th in Person County, N.C. He is the son of Thomas P. and Lucy Brown Berry. His mother died 16 days after Daniel was born.
<strong>1957</strong> Mary (Mae) Berry Carr died on the 13th of November. She is the daughter of W.P. Berry Sr and Ida Ann Wilson Berry.
<strong>1960</strong> Thomas Ewart Berry died on December 15th. in Durham County, N.C. He was the son of John Robert and Elizabeth Bowling Berry.
<strong>1964</strong> Willie Adolphus Berry died on January 8th in Orange County, N.C. He was the son of John Robert and Elizabeth Bowling Berry.
<strong>1965</strong> Wiley P. Berry died on May 8th in Mebane, Alamance Co., N.C., at the home of his son, William Eugene Berry. He was the son of John Robert and Elizabeth Bowling Berry and was born in Orange County, North Carolina.
<strong>1968</strong> Ada Lee Ann Berry Rogers died on November 22nd in Orange County, N.C. She was the daughter of John Robert and Elizabeth F. Bowling Berry.
<strong>1973</strong> Brodie Shakespeare Carr died on August 24th. He was the husband of Mary (Maye) Berry Carr.
<strong>1984</strong> Jesse Clyde Henderson died on June the 11th. He was the husband of <a href="/ancestors/sallymalenaberrync/">Sally Malena Berry Henderson</a>.
<strong>1984</strong> William Eugene Berry died on September 30th. He was the son of W.P. Berry Sr. and Ida Ann Wilson Berry.
<strong>1989</strong> Woodrow Wilson Berry died on May 3rd. He was the son of W.P. Berry Sr. and Ida Ann Wilson Berry.
<strong>1993</strong> Pattie Alma McAdams Berry died on April 16th. She was the wife of William
Eugene Berry.

<a href="#">Back to top</a>
<h5>Last updated February, 5, 2015</h5>
